Good evening, everyone. You're listening
to KCSU Stanford 90.1. Thank you so much
for joining us for the Happy Birthday
Earth Day 50th Anniversary Special
featuring students from Ellen Fletcher
Middle School in Palo Alto, California.
I'm Lexi Nealon. And I'm Chris Escobedo.
And we will be your hosts tonight for this
Earth Day special. We're both
undergraduates completing degrees in the
Earth Systems program at Stanford
University. For our senior capstone
project, we wanted to work on something
that would make a difference in the world,
not just for us as students, but for the
broader community as well, something that
would last beyond our time at Stanford. We
were especially interested in working with
youth for this project because we see a
tremendous need and desire to involve them
in the environmental movement. In recent
years, Gen Z has become increasingly
interested in environmental activism, and
the Washington Post actually estimates
that 24% of current U.S. teenagers have
participated in a school walkout, attended
a protest, or written to a government
representative about climate change.
Because lots of environmental issues are
complex and overwhelming, we were curious
to hear how young people would talk about
them in their own voices, what questions
they might have, what concerns they'd
have, and what they look forward to in the
future. We were also so aware of the need
for hope and optimism, especially right
now during this pandemic, and it seemed
that empowering youth to participate in
these complex discussions could serve as a
powerful motivator for environmental
activism. activism. I've worked in radio
at KCSU for almost four years, so I know
that this is a great platform not only for
participants to highlight their ideas, but
also for them to build confidence, learn
how to talk with people, and find their
own voice. Putting all that together,
Chris and I thought that a podcast
highlighting middle schoolers'
perspectives at an age when they are
really coming into their own in terms of
becoming active decision makers in their
school and community would be a great way
to celebrate Earth Day. Over the last
three months, we've worked collaboratively
with 13 Ellen Fletcher middle school
students to prepare them to interview
their chosen trusted adults and to be
interviewed themselves. We hope that
hearing from these students will make
others excited about considering the youth
voice, especially when making decisions
that impact future generations. The
remainder of this program follows the
students as they interview family,
friends, mentors, and teachers from their
community who reflect on environmental
changes they've noticed since the first
Earth Day in 1970. Later on, the same
students will discuss their perspectives
on today's environmental challenges,
particularly climate change, and offer
their own inspiring visions for how we
might achieve a more sustainable future.
Before we get started though, we'd like to
share a quick message with you about the
temporary coronavirus-related closure of
our campus arts museum. As part of
Stanford's response to COVID-19, Cantor
Arts Center has closed its galleries to
the general public until at least May
15th. In the interim, the museum is
offering a digest of digital resources for
visitors to explore through Museums at
Home link. Visit museum.stanford.edu slash
museums dash home. Cantor Arts is looking
forward to reopening its doors once again
as soon as possible. For more info, go to
museums.stanford.edu. Thanks, Chris, for
that important update. Now, as a reminder,
each of our 13 students selected one adult
participant, and the only criteria we
required for their selection was that the
adult had to be someone they would be
comfortable interviewing and was at least
50 years old, such that they were alive
during the first Earth Day in 1970. Right,
so let's go ahead and meet those adults
that our students chose.
I'm a mother of one fantastic daughter,
and I'm an administrator at Stanford in
the computer science department. I'm like
technically a secretary, a nutrition
expert, a housekeeper and fashion
counselor for my husband and my two
beautiful kids. And I was born in Mexico
City. I'm the daughter of Spanish
immigrants. I am a teacher, and I'm very
proud to be one, even though I don't teach
nowadays. I'm from Berkeley, California,
and I, of course, am retired. I'm elderly.
I volunteer at the food closet and have a
great book club. I'm from Bulgaria, Sofia
is the capital of Bulgaria. I was born
during communism and then my husband won a
green card from the lottery and we all
became here. And we are in the USA since
March of 1996. I live in Palo Alto,
California. I run a company, I'm the CEO
and co-founder of a tech company that has
a software solution based on artificial
intelligence. I am the Fletcher Middle
School librarian, and I was born in 1965
in Boston, and I went to UC Berkeley for
my teaching credential and my master's in
education. And my favorite job of all is
being a middle school teacher librarian. I
am a language arts and music teacher, a
great supporter of all environmental
movements to save this beautiful planet,
Mother Earth. and I recycle very
scrupulously. I grew up in India.
Currently, I'm an enterprise solutions
engineer working in the machine learning
artificial intelligence field. When I was
growing up, I went to college to study
geology and earth sciences, but then I
moved to computer science field.
Currently, I'm working in medical affairs,
working with cancer drugs at a
pharmaceutical company. For fun, I like to
travel, and every year we visit my parents
and relatives in Thailand. I'm a
management consultant. I work mostly in
the life sciences industry doing
technology consulting. I grew up in a
little town in Iowa, northeastern Iowa.
And the last few years, I was a school
librarian at a high school in Fairfax
County. I grew up in Southern California
in Orange County. And then when I got
married, we both worked in technology. And
so we moved up here to the Bay Area. And
then we both have worked in technology and
also have been very involved in the
schools when our kids were in school.
What amazing and diverse participants.
Although all of our students are based in
Palo Alto, the adults they chose to
interview have connections all over the
globe. I can't wait to hear what they have
to say. Absolutely agreed. I think this
really goes to show just how
interconnected our world is nowadays. And
I'm thrilled to hear such a wide variety
of perspectives. Let's hand it over to the
kids to get us started.
Think about a place where you have lived
in or visited for multiple years. How has
the environment in that place changed over
time? Sure. Sure. One of the most popular
places in India is Bangalore. And as
anyone knows right now, Bangalore is
called the Silicon Valley of India. But
when I was growing up, Bangalore was the
most beautiful city with the best weather
and no pollution, less number of people.
It was a beautiful city to grow or visit
for tourism. But as the time passed by,
the tech boom happened and people just
grew exponentially. Now, every time I go
to Bangalore, it's dusty, it's polluted,
it's warm, and it's not that something you
love to live there. It has changed
drastically. I would say like in 25 or 30
years, it has become from a nice, cold and
pleasant city in terms of the weather to
more like hot. Humidity is high now and it
rains too often. I grew up in Busan city
in South Korea. It is a south part of
country. It's near the ocean. It was a
very nice place. The weather was nice. The
air was very clean. There was a mountain
near my town, and it was easily accessible
for everyone. I remember that there was a
little stream, and sometimes my friend and
I went to the air play. We could easily
spot frog spawn and tadpole and small
fishes. It was fun. Well, like about 20
years ago, there was yellow dust,
especially during springtime. Scientists
said that yellow dust from China during
springtime because wind made this yellow
dust blow over the ocean and arrived to
South Korea. But it's usually springtime,
not that long, so people could just
prevent and wear masks during that time.
But however, these days, not only yellow
dust, nowadays they say fine dust. I
remember I went outside with a kid and I
could tell the air is not very clear. And
I got a phone call from my sister-in-law
and, oh, today the fine dust level is very
high. You should stay at home. And I
asked, what is that? And she came to me
and she showed me how to install the Find
Us Index application. And she told me, you
should check it every day. And if the
level is very high, you should stay at
home. It's really, really bad for kids and
older people. And if you have to go out,
you should wear a mask. So that is the new
culture in Korea. I would take my hometown
in India. It's almost kind of a very
hidden gem. It's a hill station tucked
away from the civilization almost. It's
called Wayanad. It's on the southmost tip
of India. As I said, it's a hill station
surrounded by mountain around 8,000 feet
above sea level. The only access to the
place still is a bus route. And that's how
we communicate with the rest of the world.
So the memories of that place is, you
know, it was abundance of nature. or
that's what I can remember most. It was
greenery everywhere, no pollution. When
you walk outside at night, you could see a
full starry sky. Like you couldn't see a
place, locate a place where you don't see
stars. It was that kind of a place. When I
traveled back, I mostly traveled again by
bus. So the first thing that you remember
is as you are climbing a winding hill road
to reach Wayanad, you would suddenly be
hit with lots and lots of fresh air. Even
if I'm sleeping, I would know that I
reached Wayanad by just that breath of
fresh air. So over the years, this fresh
air, this cold wind, and that sweetness of
earth that you can smell, that slowly
started kind of eroding. So it's a little
bit sad to see the place converted to
almost an industrial location where you
could see houses everywhere, roads
everywhere, buildings getting propped up
everywhere. So it's a little bit sad to
see that. The first place I lived overseas
was in Japan, which was Okinawa, but now
that part is all part of Japan. Japan.
It's a very small island. It was right
after World War II. And there were a lot
of damages done to the environment there
because of the war in many places that
were inaccessible to most people because
it had damaged the place so much. And I
understand that now they created a lot of
tourist spots there. And apparently
they've tried to restore the environment
there, beaches and bring back a different
kind of tourist economy. In Germany, we
were there right after, you know, within a
year of that. And there were many places
you couldn't go because they still were
having problems with unexploded bombs and
stuff because you couldn't go there. So we
didn't have a lot of access to just
anywhere we wanted to go in Europe. All
these places you could just walk right up
to the buildings. And we went back there
many years later and you could not do that
because they had been damaged too much,
either by tourists or time. When I was
growing up, Mexico City had the most
incredible environment. What I recall is a
beautiful valley surrounded by mountains
and some of them are huge volcanoes. The
sky was always blue, the air always
transparent. And you could predict the
weather because it ran with clock
perfection. We had a rainy season that
started in May, finished in September. But
that was it. And the fruit that you had
and the vegetables you ate belonged to
that season. Right now, everything has
changed. When I was growing up, this city
had 6 million people. And right now we are
20-something. So the city has grown
incredibly, incredibly, and not with great
order, I would say. Can you please tell me
about a time where you felt that climate
change was impacting a part of your daily
life? The drought we experienced a few
years ago comes to mind. I remember when I
first came to Pau Alto, there was a lot of
rain in the winter and through the month
of April. This is no longer the case and
all of us remember how we had a water
crisis and had to stop washing our cars,
balconies, had to stop watering plants and
change our habits to preserve water. of?
Well, look at right now, we're all sitting
at home and being quarantined. Why?
Because there are some practices that need
to be reviewed. What we eat, how we eat
it, because the viruses come a lot of
times from unhealthy food practices. And
so the ethics of of what we're eating need
to be reviewed in many countries. And
then, yes, the ability to spread any kind
of a problem all over the world quickly,
that is an environmental issue that we're
facing right now because we're so
interconnected through airplanes, through
traveling. Since we can do that, we need
to be very conscious conscious about how
we're behaving and what we are again what
footprint we're leaving behind so i grew
up in india when um companies like talked
about co2 emissions i think more into
general context in india was like people
believed what was there but then um what
happened was there were some industry
disasters that happened in india i
remember back in 70s and 80s, there were
poisonous gases released in the atmosphere
during something that happened with the
industrial complex, and it caused a lot of
deaths. So I think if I go back, I think
in my memory only, I think the focus was
always on these kind of life-threatening
disasters rather than CO2 emissions, to my
awareness. I don't think people paid
enough attention to CO2 emissions back in
the day. Do you think the general populace
in your area were aware of climate change
back then? Absolutely not. I don't think
there was any awareness or even now there
is awareness for climate change.
Definitely the pollution, the industrial
hazards that happened there, those were
the concerns. But if I talk to most of the
people back home in India, I don't think
anybody knows the impact or the
consequences of climate change. Even if
you don't believe in the root cause,
that's because of pollution or not, but we
all know that the temperature of the
planet is rising and it will have
consequences. I don't think anybody's
paying attention to that. I think it's
probably the same in the United States. If
you look at most of the cities, the big
cities like New York, San Francisco,
Houston, they're all on the coast. So if
the temperature keeps rising, these cities
won't exist anymore. But I think people
think somehow it will solve itself, or
honestly, people are not thinking long
-term, in my opinion. What are your
thoughts about the environment right now
compared to the environment 15 years ago?
I think about it a lot now. I mean,
there's so much written about it, and we
see so many pictures. We really never gave
it a thought. never read or heard about it
50 years ago. And now you just see
pictures of it happening. I think it's in
the forefront of all of our minds now. I
hardly think you could talk to anyone who
didn't think that it's happening.
I don't know about you, but I'm finding it
fascinating to hear from these folks about
the changes they've witnessed, both in the
sense of physical changes to the
environment, as well as in social and
cultural awareness about how humans are
impacting the climate. Yeah, absolutely. I
think they've done a fantastic job
capturing what climate change really looks
like on a human scale. It's almost
disheartening to hear all of these
dramatic personal stories of how much the
earth has changed. Honestly, it's a little
scary to think about. But at the same
time, it's so encouraging to hear about
how our awareness is growing, to know that
people are paying more and more attention
to these issues. I agree. Their message
makes me feel very hopeful too. But let's
also build some scientific context around
the stories we've been hearing and talk
about what the changes have looked like at
a global scale. Sure, definitely. So this
past year was the second warmest year on
record globally. And July of 2019 was the
hottest month in California ever. Since
that very first Earth Day in 1970, our
atmospheric CO2 levels have increased by
26%, and every year we reach a new record
high. The human population has also grown
from 3.7 billion people in 1970 to close
to 8 billion today, thus greatly
increasing our ability as a species to
make a lasting impact on the world around
us. Yeah, I think these numbers can be be
really shocking. They are super important
and they do a great job of highlighting
big changes and trends. But I also
understand that for many of us, they are
just big numbers and percentages and they
don't mean much on their own. But these
big numbers are causing real changes here
and now. These drastic changes we've heard
a lot about, the way people's lives are
being impacted today, that is what these
numbers are telling us. You're completely
right. What's most important is the issues
that these climate conditions can cause
for our communities as well as for our
environment. Let's go ahead and turn
things back over to our students and their
interviewees to hear more about how these
issues manifest in their lives and what we
can do individually and as a society to
address them.
can you describe the most important
environmental issue in your opinion and
why it's important pollution the the
carbon emissions from cars and everyone on
the road rushing to get to where they are
if you look at the coronavirus pandemic
with everyone sheltering in pace you can
see that la our area, the pollution has
been cut back or cut down because nobody's
on the road using their cars. To me,
rising sea level is the most, I would say,
important environmental issue because that
is causing a lot of smaller islands
getting submerged by the sea level rise.
So people are losing their places to live
and animals or like sea animals, they're
having trouble in terms of the pollution
in the ocean. I think climate change is so
important, not just for us here in
California, where we've seen these raging
wildfires, but around the world. And it
just enrages me that we have people who
are naysayers and denying the science. if
you just look at the shrinkage of the ice,
the polar ice, and you just watch that.
And then you see these pictures of the
starving polar bears. I mean, if that
doesn't move someone, I don't know what
will. And that's just talking about the
animal population. But then you think
about all the floods we've been having and
all the horrific extreme weather. It's all
linked to climate change. And I don't
understand why we're not able to get it
together, especially as a country. The
fact that that we took ourselves out of
the international agreements is so
embarrassing because we're supposed to be
this leader of nations and we're not
leading. I still don't see any clear
action or a strong guide from government.
It's just true that glaciers are melting
every year due to global warming. All our
animal habitats are destroyed. Also, it'll
impact the ecosystem. If ecosystem is
destroyed, Showing people that is safe,
too. I'm really worried. Do you think that
more public recognition from events like
Earth Day has helped the climate improve?
Yes, I do. The first Earth Day was a very
big deal. I mean, I remember it very
clearly. I was in college. I think that
that's brought a lot of attention over the
years, along with other measures. I come
from a marketing background, and so I know
it's very important to always get the word
out so people really understand what the
issues are. And so Earth Day, it's really
a marketing ploy that brings attention to
the issues. And I think it's very
important because that's the way that you
can communicate and hopefully get people
involved in activities. activities. For
instance, a typical Earth Day activity
might be to go out and clean up the creeks
or the beaches. And by people
participating in this, I think it gives
them a real hands-on experience as far as
why it's important and what it is out
there and how they can help. And that may
make them expand their view beyond just
that beach that they're cleaning up. I
think it's a a piece of the whole puzzle.
Nothing in life is, I think, just a one
-shot deal. So when you say it takes a
village to do something, I think that's a
good analogy here, that it takes a
village. So you need things on many
different levels so that people will
understand it on different levels, and
that it can make an impact locally,
statewide, federally, nationwide, and
internationally. And so I think it's very
important to have different pieces that
are going to all work together to move the
goals forward. Do you think that evolution
in technology is doing more or less good
for the environment? I'm divided in my
opinion. I think, you know, I say humans
are progressive. We are inquisitively
curious. I think the technological
progress that we are making is quite
natural. And somehow we cannot prevent
that. And that's how we as a human society
evolved. But I'm also not here to deny the
negative influence of technology that it
has been. And in my own life, I can see
that even within a family, Like, you know,
the interactions that we have are
tremendously influenced, you know,
negative influence of technology. But I
wouldn't say, you know, the solution is
let's go back and do not use technology.
Even the crisis that we are going through
now because of the pandemic, we are all
forced to be socially distant and be at
home. and I think you know this is a time
for us to reflect and slow down because we
all think that you know we have to get so
many things done but nothing would happen
if we just slow down and relax at home one
day and we should go in that direction
it's not technology that is bad or good
influence but you know it's it's we as
humans who needs to think what is good for
us and needs to balance them is that. Can
you walk me through one action we can take
to make a difference today? I think that
pollution stems from overuse and waste.
So, you know, like air pollution, you
know, comes from the use of all the cars
on the street, all these transportation,
the factories, burning fuel, Water
pollution comes from all the waste and
trash and the plastics. So we can do a lot
to decrease pollution by being more
mindful of the waste that we generate. So
recycling of things, not just recycling of
water bottles and whatnot or containers,
but really recycling of everyday products.
Think about the iPhones that we keep
having to update and upgrade and all the
waste that's associated with that. Or just
all the shoes and clothes that everyone
needs to buy to be trendy. So I think
that, you know, just cutting down on all
these waste and all these basics can go a
long way to cut down pollution. I remember
being in Milan, Italy last year, and I saw
that they are planting trees on the side
of buildings and on the rooftop. So then
even if they have to cut trees from the
ground to build an apartment building or
something else, then they make it up by
planting trees on top or everywhere
possible. And I think we can try to do
that here. We can do more walking and
bicycling to the grocery stores, walk to
Safeway, things like that. We could do
more of that instead of taking these short
little trips because we want to make
everything happen so quickly. And then we
would have more time to look at the trees
and the greenery and the cherry blossoms
blooming. We need to change what we're
doing now. I don't know how. That's what I
have to have the scientists tell us. But I
know there are things, you know, little
things we can do. Like my daughter-in-law
suggested that I use cloth napkins instead
of paper. So I'm doing that to save on
paper. And then I bought these rubber
gizmos. I don't even know what you call
them. They're leftovers that can be thrown
in the dishwasher rather than using
plastic wrap and baggies.
and we've got to drink more water from the
faucet. We just have to be more thoughtful
about what we're doing and remember that
it's not going to help the environment, so
maybe choose something that would help the
environment. I do think that each one of
us carries a responsibility for what we
can do to make a difference. so that's at
our personal level but I think it's also
very important for us to go up to the
level beyond the individual and that would
be to your city level and to work with
your city city of Palo Alto for instance
then beyond the the city I think it's very
important to work at the county level the
state level federal level and an
international level so I think there's
steps each place along the way and there
has to be coordination especially at the
international national level. Because if
all countries are not trying to care for
the ocean and what's happening there, then
we're going to lose hundreds and thousands
of species and plants and reefs and
whatnot. Dear librarian, what role do you
think libraries and reading can and should
play in helping people learn about climate
change and the environment? Oh, that's a
good question. Yes, Yes, libraries really
can do a lot for that because that's where
you get information. You get help finding
information about it. You have things that
are presented to you in such a way that it
encourages you to read more and do
projects that are related to the
environment. And all of that is something
that librarians really promote. Not
everything is available just on the
internet without being taught how to
decide whether something is factual or
not. Librarians work very hard in trying
to teach students how to be good consumers
of information and how to decide what's
fact and what is fiction. Is there
anything important that you think kids my
age need to know or do to make sure the
environment keeps getting better? What
advice would you have for me? You should
probably look for information, and your
librarians might be able to recommend
things to you that would have to do with
the environment. Reading books that are
even fiction that take place in different
environmental settings that you become
more aware of it. But I think that doing
projects where you have to research all
different angles of an environmental
problem are one of the most valuable you
could do. I think everyone needs to be
more mindful every day with everything
that they do, whether or not the
environment can be impacted by their
actions and to be educated about what they
can do and to constantly get information
about what they can do to help the
environment. And most important of all,
not to be wasteful. I remember when I was
a fourth grade teacher, we were, I had a
unit on trash and we were weighing our
trash. We were competing against another
classroom to see who could have the least
amount of trash. We had a trash free
lunch. These are all things I think we
definitely could implement at our school.
And I know that when kids are educated,
they educate their parents. So I remember,
you know, the difference. My own kids
would come home after learning something
at school. Hey, we learned this in school.
Like, oh my gosh, that's, thank you.
That's, I think that's a great idea. So I
really think that we can impact the change
of the adults by starting with our own
kids at our school. I would tell them to
be thankful. Thankful for the planet we
have, which is wonderful. And we cannot
waste it anymore. And we are doing a very
good job cutting trees, polluting beaches.
You cannot change the world by yourself,
but you can change, as I told you, your
life. If everyone introduced in their
lives environmental policies, things would
get better. And we are seeing it today.
Things have changed in two weeks of
seclusion. What I would tell them is to
take care of themselves, to take care of
their families, to take care of the
children, of the old people, being more
aware of one another. If we do that, of
course, we will also lead a responsible
life regarding weather, pollution and
everything you tell me. What we really
need and desperately are values, values,
values, values. I am very sure because I'm
very optimistic that this situation that
we are going through right now is going to
change the way we lead our lives. Well,
now I'm going to say something very
philosophical. It's up to you guys of your
generation. so i think the more people
like you of your age get interested and
really concerned with how to fix some of
the problems the better the planet the
better off planet will be and all of us
living on it so i think that uh they are
enough activists of my generation
generation and enough activists of our
host generation to work it all together.
And yes, I think there is a huge, strong
chance, especially after this pandemic
that we're living in right now. I'm hoping
that it will serve as an amazing lesson to
how quickly we can actually stop doing
wrong things and bad things, shut down all
the factories that are emitting all the
terrible gases and the air is cleaning
within three weeks the waters are cleaning
within two weeks in the rivers if people
stop adding pollutants into it so I think
the planet is ready to cooperate with us
and I think if countries governments
people like you like me and like people
who are doing this radio program today if
we're all get our minds together I think
in 50 years we can have have a clean
environment.
Can I just say, I am so impressed with our
student interviewers and the questions
that they've come up with. I'm just really
glad they're asking about lessons learned
and for messages that these adults want to
share with their generation. I completely
agree. I think talking about these
environmental issues can be really
disheartening sometimes, times, so I'm so
glad to see how forward-thinking both our
students and our adults are. I'm also
really excited to see them thinking of
climate change as an intergenerational
issue and finding ways to share knowledge
with each other. So I think this is a
great point to transition over to hearing
from the kids and their perspectives on
the environment. But first, I'd like to
take a quick moment to share another
announcement about the coronavirus. Second
Harvest of Silicon has always been
committed to the most vulnerable in our
community. During the COVID-19 outbreak,
with its related economic impacts, your
neighbors need your help now more than
ever. You can donate food or provide
monetary assistance. And if you're in good
health and not in a high-risk category,
you can also volunteer to pre-box or
distribute food to those in need. For more
information on how to help, visit shfb
.org. That's shfb.org or call 866-234
-3663.
Yeah, thanks Lexi. So to start off, we
asked the students what they want to be
when they're older to get a sense of what
they're interested in and what they care
about. So now let's meet all the students
we'll be talking to today. today um
my dream or my the job that i want to be
like when i get older is a doctor so i can
help people like that is like struggling
with whatever stuff so like to save
people's life like more than even one
because every person is like can do every
something that is affected to everything
things when I'm older I really want to be
a psychologist because I find just the
brains of people to be very interesting
and it's just so crazy to think that there
are scientific things going on in people's
heads when they do things and say things
and I want to help others without having
to look at blood because I can't be a
doctor architecture because I really like
um the The way how all of that process
involved in making these amazing buildings
or these amazing houses or bridges. I
think the process is really cool. I want
to be a lawyer. This is funny, but arguing
has always been one of my specialties.
Actually, a lot of people say that. And I
always found law very interesting. Either
a doctor to help save lives. And
especially the doctors now who are helping
with the coronavirus. Those people really
inspire me. But I would also want to be a
computer engineer. Like most people, I'm
not sure yet. But I know that I definitely
want to keep dance in my life because
that's a big part of my life. And I also
want to do something either like related
to the environment or like helping people.
So I might become an environmentalist or
like a scientist or something. And I also
really enjoy math. so there's a lot of
options but I definitely want to do
something that helps people and our
environment I honestly want in the
beginning I always wanted to be a movie
director but these days I actually want to
be either a um someone working in the
broadcast team because I actually feel
like I'm really good at recording things
or I want to be game designer because
usually I have um some interesting ideas I
don't know kind of an undecided but I
would like to do something creative
because like I really like to like sing
and draw that kind of stuff even though
it's kind of risky but I don't know. I
want to be an architect because I want to
I know that a lot of people need homes and
I want to make sure everyone can find
affordable affordable housing. I really
enjoy working with animals so like I go
out on the farm and all that like with
horses especially and maybe like designer
for animals like like not like clothes but
like for horses for example like saddles
and stuff like that I kind of like coding
so potentially something related to coding
or software development the way you can
express what you want to do and make
something that is your own? A job where I
have power to make like decisions and
impact because well I've grown up like in
a place where like my parents were making
decisions that impacted people and I think
that I could really use that for the good.
I definitely want to be something that
like positively impacts people in the
environment such as like a doctor or like
a a scientist that studies the
environment.
These are some really cool kids who
certainly aspire to make the world a
better place in any way that they can.
Yeah, they're such an awesome mix of
interests, and they're all clearly very
thoughtful and compassionate. I also think
it's important for our listeners to know
that these kids were not selected because
they had extensive backgrounds in
environmental science, but because they
have a wide variety of interests ranging
from sustainability to public speaking to
audio production and journalism. That's
right. Although we do have students who
are involved in their school's
environmentally focused club, we also have
students from their broadcasting program
and student leadership as well. They'll
definitely bring some really cool
perspectives to this conversation. So
let's go ahead and dive into these
interviews and hear what they have to say.
Thank you all so much for agreeing to
speak with us. And we're so excited to
hear what you have to say about today's
environmental issues and your visions for
the future. But to start off, just so
we're all on the same page, how would you
define the environment? In other words,
what does the environment mean to you?
When I think about environment, I see like
green and I see like trees and bushes and
flowers. flowers, and I see it as like a
pretty thing, I guess. I just think about
like the earth when I think about
environment and like saving it and helping
it grow so the next generations can
experience the earth we see. When I hear
environment, I think a lot about nature.
So I think about like trees and grass and
so in the environment, some words that
come to mind are rain, sun, but also Also
things like climate change and drought.
And so when I think of the environment, I
just think of a lot of people trying to
get together to improve something. And I
know that there's a lot of ways to help
the environment. And there's a lot of
things that we're doing that have also
impacted the environment negatively. It's
something that we're all trying to make a
better place. And I hope that we can do
that. A huge place that people need to
stay. Maybe it's kind of weird, But like
we need the environment to like stay alive
or like stay healthy. And like if we kind
of destroy this, it just like make
everything like crash into like multiple
pieces and like make everything bad. So
it's my home. It's where I live. So to see
it kind of like crumble with all this
pollution and all this plastic being
littered, it really is sad. And what do
you think of when you hear the term
climate change? Climate change is like
mainly human impact and what humans are
doing to the environment, such as like
burning fossil fuels. I mean, when I'm
hearing climate change, I'm literally
imagining a sun with like little
sunglasses looking at the earth and
getting closer and closer together.
together then I think about icebergs and
how they're melting and then the polar
bears who are in those barren lands that
don't have a lot of ice because all the
icebergs are melting and then I start
thinking of like greenhouses because of
greenhouse gases and then I start thinking
of cows because they produce the most
greenhouse gases because methane and then
I think of cars because pollution and
there's all these things I start thinking
of and then it just leads down to nothing.
That's dark, but that's reality. It kind
of makes me scared because like, if this
problem just like, goes like further and
further, I feel like I can't live in this
environment right now. So I'm kind of
scared right now. So and everyone's like
talking, I'm going to unworry about it. So
I'm like, kind of worried and scared every
time I heard that word. Can you think of
and describe to me a specific time when
something that seemed related to climate
change impacted your life? So in
California recently, there have been some
fires and pretty big ones, like really big
wildfires. And that's due to how the
increase of heat in our atmosphere. And it
makes, if you have like dried out grass,
it can maybe like start fires and it can
destroy so much and contaminate people's
homes. and it's really sad because it's
really destructive. That was a really big
moment to a lot of people. Something that
really impacted me, one where there were
the fires in North California because I
remember at school, we would always smell
smoke everywhere and then we had to have
the power shut off and also something that
didn't necessarily impact me, but I've
heard a lot about the fires in Australia.
And then so like, I really feel for like
the people and the animals that had to go
through that. Only when I got to Korea
that far I feel like it affects me. Like I
said, there's so much yellow dust going
around. This is something about factories
producing too much smoke and dust are
blowing into Korea. Yeah, so we have to
suffer because some factories are putting
their smoke into our country. I think I
hear a lot about what's kind of going on
in the environmental field and
specifically in the realm of climate
change. And I've heard people become less
and less optimistic over time. Just in
general, yeah.
For those of you that are just joining us,
you are listening to the Happy Birthday
Earth Day 50th Anniversary Special on KCSU
Stanford 90.1. We just heard from 13
middle school students about the ways in
which climate change has influenced their
lives. But what I found particularly
striking about this conversation was how
much the students were aware of not only
climate change's impact on themselves, but
also on their community at large. Yeah, I
agree. They're picking up on so many
nuanced and complex issues. It feels like
adults sometimes underestimate young
people and their ability to see the bigger
picture. But hearing about how they see
climate change has really shown me how
incredibly perceptive and capable they
really are. That's right, and I think it's
super important to recognize because they
will be shaping the future of our planet.
Let's hear a little more from them about
what they expect the world will look like
at the 100th anniversary of Earth Day.
As you know, this year is the 50th
anniversary of Earth Day, and the
environment has changed in a number of
ways since that very first one. So let's
imagine 50 years from now. Really take a
minute to imagine that. You'll be just
over 60 years old. You may have a partner,
children of your own. You might be doctors
and architects, environmentalists. Think
about what the world might look like then.
What can you imagine the environment will
be like? What do you think will have
changed and what will have stayed the
same? our impact on the earth could go two
ways one is that like if we continue this
path that we're going in the earth will
definitely like not thrive but however um
if we make a bunch of little changes and
we like change our lifestyle and how we
live then the earth will definitely like
like stay the same or even like go back to
how like it was like years prior but like
as I said before if like we continue this
path that we're going through now like
we're like burning so many fossil fuels
and like driving everywhere and like um
and like wasting so much food and and
things and that will definitely drive the
earth to like not um be how it is now and
how it was before although i would like
everyone to like make a change it doesn't
seem like it's happening right now the
thing that most looks most likely
currently is that um it will continue
moving in this path and the earth won't
survive
I feel like the grass isn't going to be as
green technology is going to like take
over I feel like now people are starting
to figure out like more about the
environment they're trying to help it more
so I think that with more buildings and
everything happening I think that people
more people will start to like help out so
we can have a good balance of both things
and I think that if more and more people
come together and try to help the
environment we can make a big difference
and in 50 years we can have helped the
environment while still developing our
economy but not like ruining the
environment in a way. It would probably
get worse before it gets better so
probably there There would be higher sea
levels. There would have been more fires,
more deforestation, but then it will have
started. Hopefully it will be better by
then. There will be less plastic in the
ocean. The temperatures will start going
down. We'll stop burning so much fossil
fuels. Probably once it starts actually
affecting the people who have power to
make the changes that will stop it getting
worse, Once it actually starts affecting
those people, then it will likely start
getting better. Once it starts affecting
the people who have power.
It sounds to me like they are really aware
of how decisions made right now will
dramatically influence what the world
looks like in the future. That we are at a
turning point and that we need to have a
plan of action. Definitely. So let's hear
more about what they see as the biggest
environmental threats and about how we can
overcome them.
Can you describe what you think is the
most important environmental issue facing
our society today, in your opinion, and
why it's important? I find that global
warming is a main problem, problem mainly
because um the glaciers are melting um
well if the glaciers melt um we'll
probably all flooded like i said anything
that um any diseases or anything really
terrifying um is in the glacier might come
out who knows what's in those glaciers we
haven't explored them yet so if they do
melt then um you'll make your jobs of
finding what's in there easier in a bad
way um i think that it's uh air pollution
because like it's something that impacts
every single one of us that are on this
earth right now and it's been impacting us
but i think it would grow and it wouldn't
just impact some people it'd impact the
world as a whole um i think like plastic
and trash issues that are like one of the
most hardest problems to fix or like
problems that we're facing that is
difficult because like recycling and like
plastic and other stuff we can do
something with it but people are not like
maybe they're like trying but we're not
we're not doing that well like a good job
right now so I read an article about trash
and there's like huge like mountains of
trash and like near the ocean or the bay
or something and like that's affecting our
environment a lot and I got like really
scared because like I didn't know about
trash because I'm throwing in the trash
and like if I see other people are doing
like this I feel like oh maybe I need to
do a better job or do something for to
make them rethink about what how the trash
and plastics are destroying the
environment the amount of plastic that are
is like in the world right now because
plastic just well in order to make plastic
you also like have to reduce a lot of
chemicals into the atmosphere which
worsens it and plastic can't be like
broken down for a very long time and like
it's going to take a lot of years so it
just lays there in the ocean and
eventually the ocean will just like be
filled with a lot of plastic. It already
is, but if it continues to be like this,
it's going to like be made of plastic
almost-ish. So really plastic is the main
thing I'm focusing on because it comes in
a lot of packages and so many people don't
just like throw it on the floor, throw it
at the beach. A lot of beaches you just
see a little plastic, but at this beach I
went to, it was just so much plastic.
Actually walking on plastic, like that was
a whole different story. Trash. Filling up
our earth with landfills when, you know,
space is finite. We're eventually going to
run out. So I always just wonder what I'm
going to do then, you know. Live on the
same planet, right? We're killing it. You
know, again, trash is bad for the
environment. We have to destroy forests to
make way for landfills. And obviously,
another problem is with the more forests
you destroy, the less oxygen we're
getting. Because, you know, plants and
trees transfer CO2 to oxygen. And, you
know, we breathe oxygen. Now, walk me
through an action that we can take to
address some of those issues. choose um
this may be like really simple and like
people are taught to but like just like
split or try not to use trash because if
we use like recyclable water bottle or
like container or stuff that like amount
of plastic can be reduced like a lot well
you can for sure reuse stuff that are
plastic or even not. I've always, I like
use public transportation a lot. And I
think that like, like that's just a really
easy way that we can help out use public
transportation because not only is it
going to help the environment, but like
we've become so disconnected in this
world. I feel like it could bring us
together more. And also like the
experiences that happen when you're with
other people really shapes who you are. I
feel like if we all planted more trees in
our neighborhoods or in local parks, that
would be really helpful. And if there's
like any bills that could be passed, I'm
sure there are a lot of proposed bills.
and then honestly just reducing shower
times and like just trying to use solar
panels or like wind-powered things to just
use less of like the electrical like fuels
I feel like that would definitely be
useful more hybrid cars and electric cars
you just need to just like make people
feel like it's important to save the
environment I mean people love a good
bargain so anything that That would help
them save money, whether that's lowered
tax rates because they have an electric
car or if they get some sort of like tax
refund because they planted a tree. I
think that everyone can just take a bunch
of like small steps towards the issue. For
example, choosing to walk or bike or like
scooter rather than driving somewhere and
just being mindful of like everything that
you do before you do it. So I know there's
a lot to be worried about, and you may be
feeling that especially right now with the
coronavirus pandemic. But one thing that
we're really interested in as people who
work on environmental issues is what makes
people hopeful, what makes people believe
that there will be a better future ahead.
So to that end, what makes you hopeful for
the future of the environment and why?
Honestly, because if you don't hope, then
what is there to be? I mean, if you're not
hoping that things are going to get
better, things just aren't going to get
better because you're not actively doing
something against it. Even if it is just
recycling, you're obviously hoping that
you're going to make a difference. The
little things that everyone does. The
plants growing, even though we've had
challenges and destruction in our earth,
makes me hopeful. that they'll continue to
keep growing for the next generations. How
awareness has spread, as well as the
younger generation has really seen the
evolution of how the problem has been
impacting us. So I think that we'd be more
inspired and more driven to solve this
problem. And I think that's what is really
giving hope to me. electric cars in recent
years have sort of boomed there's they
went from being maybe like five or ten
years ago like a handful that had a very
short range and weren't very popular and
now tons of brands are coming out with
their electric cars and electric cars i'm
seeing more and more of them on the street
i mean i think people like elon musk who
are working towards having a better or
future for the earth. So he made Teslas,
like electric cars, not sponsored. That
makes me really hopeful because I'm sure
there are all these people in colleges
right now who are trying to be the next
Elon Musk. I know that there will just be
more and more of those people, which means
more and more solutions to these giant
problems. That people are like releasing
these animals that have been injured by
plastic or oil. it makes me feel good that
people here still have a heart so it gives
me a little hope that maybe we can still
do it well right now schools are really
like teaching more about the problems and
that's better so the students will
probably like understand at least most of
them and they'll probably do something at
least to help the environment when there
used to be school well until all this
pandemic oh I would always bike around the
same time to school and near Goodwill I
would always see an like a lady more on
the old side and every single morning she
would wake up early and go and collect
trash around Goodwill like whenever I saw
her I would always say good good morning
and I was like I was so happy like when I
saw her because every single day she went
out it was hard sometimes it was raining
but she always collected at least a bag of
trash in the morning if I at least like
see someone trying to help an environment
it does like really make me like huge hope
that like oh there's at least some person
like one person that's helping the
environment if there's like more people
just like try to help the environment. I
think lots of people really think strongly
about this and if they all just keep
persisting maybe many others will also
contribute to these ideas and thoughts. I
see a lot of people coming together to do
the right thing that makes me hopeful
because it shows that people like do care
about our environment and they They want
us to live in the best place that we can,
and they're doing their part. And I think
that also when you see people doing their
part, it makes you want to do your part.
And then it just like builds this
community of people doing the best that
they can to preserve everything they can.
I know this happens to me all the time,
and it's kind of off topic. My grandma
loves to keep the sink on, like on dirty
dishes, and I always tell her to stop. And
even like little things like that are
helping the environment because it's not
wasting water. and when I do it it gives
me hope because I'm showing that I care
and that also gives me hope that more and
more people will start to do it and then
we can make an even bigger difference.
Well every year I invite you a new edition
of a Times recap or something basically it
tells every single thing that happens last
year. I usually look back and try looking
at everything that happened during global
warming. Sometimes it will be bad, like, I
don't know. The one I'm reading right now
said that the glaciers have two giant
chunks have fallen off the glacier. So
that shows that's going closer to global
warming and is taking place. That part
kind of creeps me out. But also I found
other good news, like people in British
are actually now complaining about the
global warming. School students in high
school are taking part and started
rallying in the streets in 2019. I find
that more people are being more aware of
global warming. Actually, that itself
gives me hope that people are not trying
to take action and that some people are
standing up to the people who are actually
causing all this trouble. That part gives
me hope.
It makes me hopeful that there's a whole
new generation. And if they grow up
hearing this message over and over, then
it will get wired into their brain. And
hopefully it'll become something they care
about. And I'll try really hard to help
our earth get better. I know it's
sometimes hard to imagine that young
people can make a difference, but being
creative, what do you think people your
age can do to help ensure that the world
will be better 5, 10, 15 years in the
future, especially when we're talking
about the environment? well we could just
talk small pick up trash that um people
like students from school have left and
threw away and on the floor pick it up and
tell them that you shouldn't do that small
things right um recycle don't mix up trash
with their cycle just honestly basic
research can go a long way right you know
what to recycle you're not going to put
trash in the recycle we should just go
waste right uh and then again just being
informed when you're a kid so you know
what to do when you're an adult right like
maybe when you're not when you're an adult
not all cars would be electric but you
obviously know the problem so maybe you
would lean towards an electric car if you
again can you know get one well they can
for sure like reuse plastic and like maybe
i think they can also So at least try to
buy less plastic in stores and stuff that
are bad for the environment. Like small
decisions and also like letting people,
telling people how they can help. Not if
you like, if you just do something, that's
one thing. But if you tell a bunch of
people that they should be doing it too,
then you can, then people can make like a
bigger impact. impact. Some things are
really necessary for us, but other things
are harming us like drugs. And that's
something that's become really like, it's
increasing in a worse way in my
generation. So I think that like, a way
that we could stop this is stop all
unnecessary things that aren't good for
the environment or good for us. And I
think that would not only help the
environment, but also the health our
overall health I feel like we can make
sure trash gets into the trash and not
around our planet I also feel like we can
start planting more plants making sure um
the whole community's environment is nice
um I think it's like it can be in like any
generations but like just to tell Tell
them what is going on right now and at
least one way to solve the problem that we
have about environmental issues. I feel
like I often mark those social media
reposts of this many forests are being cut
down in a second. But I feel like it
really is helpful because it raises
awareness. And I feel like raising
awareness in daily life is so important
because we don't spend our time watching
Greta Thunberg's speeches. I don't spend
my time doing that, at least. And I know
most of my friends don't. Kids my age or
any age could start maybe some clubs or
make a petition on how we should store our
trash. many like posters and clubs could
really affect the way people at schools
can think about the environment. Maybe
work at your school like see if what your
school is doing for like sustainable
energy if your school like does your
school have solar panels if there's like
room in their budget to install them you
could see if you could work with the
district to maybe install solar panels at
your school or have like see if you could
make the have the office install like
electric car charging spots in like the
parking lot at your school or something
like that now see if your school most
schools have like student government like
student council or something like that and
see if you could either be part of that or
work with someone or multiple people who
are part of that or see if there's like a
teacher who has like similar views and and
see if you could work with them? I think
the younger generations are who's on
social media the most. And so they're all
getting the message, but I think it's the
older generations that don't really get
the message. So I think the younger
generation should spread that knowledge.
But I know that every single time, it's
annoying, but every single time before my
parents go out, I always remind them like
don't buy any plastic like do your best to
just buy metal and paper and whatever you
can to stop so we can stop using plastic
and even little differences that like we
can make like not using as much water or
even just telling our parents to not use
as much water will result in a bigger
difference and I know that sometimes it's
hard because like you're like it's not
that big but with more and more kids doing
it it will become something big and then
their parents result doing it and then
it'll just become a big thing of people
doing what they can to help. I know with
my family I think it would be more coming
from me because hearing that I want to
help change the world and change the
environment I think has an impact on them
because it shows that like what they're
doing matters to me and what I'm doing
matters to me. I just want to help the
environment the best I can and I think
that also like I know my parents don't
probably think that I think about these
kind of things. So I think that even
coming from someone younger is more
impactful because you're like, oh, even
though they're young, they're trying to
help the world and they're trying to make
a difference. Like you said, what gives me
hope was that people who are becoming
aware, for it to happen, I think that,
like you said, that more people should be
aware, not just the young generation, but
actually every generation should be more
aware of climate change and actually try
taking a step to stop it. And like I said,
even if it's small, it does count. So I
wish for it to change. I think that not
just our generation, but every generation
should step up and try slowing down
climate change, even if it's small.
Wow, it is so inspiring and encouraging to
hear this wide variety of solutions.
solutions. Not only did they explain what
younger people can do, but also how adults
and people of our generation can get
involved, in both large and small ways.
That's right, and I think that the impact
of this is twofold. Not only are they
helping us all to act by providing
concrete actions we can take, I think they
are also inspiring us to take action. I
feel like we as a society always say that
we want to protect the earth for future
generations, but we don't really take the
time to involve our young people today and
what they can do here and now. Children
have always been a powerful motivator for
environmental action. I think seeing kids
who are striving to lead environmentally
conscious lives can show us all what a
more sustainable future could look like.
As Greta Thunberg said, people feel very
guilty when a child says, you are stealing
my future. That has impact. impact. We're
used to making decisions with kids in
mind, but I don't think we're used to
making decisions with kids in the room.
Yeah, we need to make sure that we
continue involving kids in conversations
about the environment and creating
platforms for them to share their ideas.
They cannot participate in the
environmental movement at the ballot box,
but their ideas can be incorporated if
voters are willing to listen. And climate
change is also an inherently inherently
intergenerational issue. And I believe
that we will be in very capable hands when
these kids are one day making the
decisions. I also personally feel
incredibly inspired by these kids and
their messages of hope. In college, as
environmental science majors, I feel like
we are constantly bombarded with reminders
of how big and complex environmental
issues are, and that can become really
discouraging over time. Exactly, and
that's why we love talking to people about
their their ideas, and their hopes,
especially with younger people who will
soon be at the helm of the environmental
movement. It is rejuvenating to palpably
feel so much hope and optimism, and it
serves as a powerful motivator for us as
we continue on our own paths. Well, in
closing, we just want to express our
appreciation for all of the people who
have supported us in this project. It has
been an incredibly long journey, and we
are so grateful to have had such a
wonderful team. Yes, thank you to our 13
student participants, their adult
interviewees, our mentors at Stanford,
Richard and Nicole, and the teachers and
parents from Ellen Fletcher Middle School,
all of whom made this program possible.
And thanks to you, the listeners, for
spending your Earth Day here with us.
We'll leave you with one last coronavirus
message on behalf of KZSU, but please stay
safe and have a great rest of your
evening. name. With many schools closed
due to the COVID-19 crisis, kids are
missing meals daily. No Kid Hungry is
stepping up. They're using donations,
large and small, to grant funding to
school districts, food banks, and other
local organizations right here in the Bay
Area, which in turn are feeding kids. No
Kid Hungry is dedicated to working year
-round to help the one in seven kids
across across the U.S. who face hunger
every day. To donate, visit nokidhungry
.org. That's nokidhungry.org.
Thank you.